---
pubDate: 2025-01-04
author: Sophia Higgins Alfaro
title: Sea Levels Across Puerto Rico 
description: "Analyzing sea level data across Puerto Rico from the NOAA Tides & Currents API"
image:
  url: "/src/images/10.jpeg"
  alt: "#"
tags: ["pandas", "requests", "NOAA API", "plotly"]
---
This project analyzes sea level data from the NOAA (National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration) Tides & Currents API for Puerto Rico, focusing on four coastal tide stations: San Juan (North), Parguera (South), Vieques Island (East), and Mayagüez (West). Using data from January 2015 to January 2025, the primary aim is to identify long-term trends in sea level rise and visualize the regional variations across the island's coasts. By investigating the data, the project seeks to uncover patterns in how natural disasters and environmental change have impacted sea levels over the past decade. These findings will help in understanding how Puerto Rico’s coastal areas may be at risk from ongoing environmental shifts.

The rationale behind this project is to investigate how sea levels have changed in Puerto Rico's coastal regions over time and to understand the broader implications of those changes. While sea level rise is a well-established global issue, the specific effects on Puerto Rico remain underexplored, especially in the context of natural disasters. By using historical data from NOAA's Tides & Currents API, this project aims to provide valuable insights into the temporal and spatial patterns of sea level rise, which could serve as a foundation for future research on environmental risks and community vulnerability. This analysis will provide data-driven insights that can contribute to the ongoing conversation about Puerto Rico’s environmental resilience.

Workflow:
- API request setup and call using `requests`
- Data cleaning and calculating averages using `pandas`
- Aggregating monthly and yearly averages
- Exporting aggregated results to CSV
- Visualizing the results using `plotly`

Tools used:
- `requests` python library
- `pandas` python library
- `plotly` python library
- NOAA (National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration) API

[View the Github repo](https://github.com/sofiarha/PR-SeaLevelRise)
