---
pubDate: 2025-01-04
author: Christine DaCruz
title: Mapping Lost Libraries in Palestine
description: "A visualization of destroyed Palestinian libraries alongside the lives lost on or around the same dates"
image:
  url: "/src/images/8.png"
  alt: "#"
tags: ["pandas", "requests", "BeautifulSoup4", "plotly"]
---

Libraries are not just repositories of books—they are symbols of memory, culture, and resistance. In Palestine, the destruction of libraries is not an isolated act of war; it represents a broader erasure of heritage. This project visualizes the destruction of Palestinian libraries alongside the lives lost on or around the same dates, creating a powerful data-driven narrative that links cultural annihilation with human tragedy.

This project visualizes the destruction of Palestinian libraries
alongside the lives lost on or around the same dates, creating a
powerful data-driven narrative that links cultural annihilation with
human tragedy.


Workflow:

Data Extraction via Python & Pandas using a script has been developed
using Python and the Pandas library to scrape data from the Librarians
with Palestine 2024 Gaza Report.

This script has:
- Identified library names, destruction dates, and news sources.
- Normalized and exported the scraped information into a DataFrame and
  then CSV for analysis.
- Custom data set manual CSV entry of dates of loss of cultural
  institutions, martyr names, and casualty figures.

Tools used:
- `pandas` python library
- `requests` python library
- `BeautifulSoup4` python library
- `plotly` python library

[View the Github repo](https://github.com/christudo/mapping_libraries_site)

[View the live site](https://christudo.github.io/mapping_libraries_site/)
