---
pubDate: 2025-01-04
author: Alexa Frankelis
title: Mapping Mortality and its Gaps
description: "This project leverages publicly available data to analyze the causes of death across various U.S. cities"
image:
  url: "/src/images/9.png"
  alt: "#"
tags: ["pandas", "sodapy", "OpenRefine", "plotly"]
---

This project aims to analyze the causes of death across various U.S. cities by leveraging publicly available datasets accessed through open city data portals. Many municipalities now provide access to their data via APIs, often powered by platforms like Socrata, enabling efficient, programmatic retrieval of mortality-related statistics.

The research focuses on creating a comparative narrative instead of building a unified dataset by studying which causes of death different jurisdictions track and which remain unrecorded, or hidden, or inaccessible. Through utilizing open data APIs and data visualization tools, it will examine mortality patterns including overdose-related deaths, deaths in custody, and/or COVID-19 related deaths while exposing structural gaps in official records. Findings will focus equally on the missing data points as much as it does on the recorded information.

Workflow:
- APIs provided by city open data portals (e.g., NYC, Chicago, San Francisco, and Austin) have been accessed using `soda.py`, a Python library for the Socrata Open Data API. This allowed for structured and automated data retrieval.
- While searching through each open data portal, a wide range of keyword variations had to be used across the three subject categories (incarceration-related deaths, COVID-19 deaths, and drug-related deaths), in order to surface any relevant records, where available.
- To ensure consistency and prepare the datasets for analysis and visualization, `OpenRefine` was used as a key tool for cleaning and transforming the raw data retrieved from each city’s open data portal.
- Cleaned datasets were analyzed using Python libraries such as `pandas` for data manipulation and `plot.ly` for interactive visualizations.

Tools used:
-  `sodapy` python library
- `OpenRefine`
- `pandas` python library
- `plotly` python library

[View the Github repo](https://github.com/afran190/urban_mortality_data)

[View the live site](https://afran190.github.io/urban_mortality_data/)
